{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13040\viewh14600\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\tx11640\li609\fi11\ri-2272\pardirnatural

\f0\fs40 \cf0 \

\f1\b THE FLOW: Therefores & Buts
\f0\b0 \
\
World\'92s complex systems\
We CAN understand them all (sense of control)\
One good way, through simulations! (create your own!)\
Oh, also, emoji.\
\

\f1\b // Get used to the Sim interface\
(it\'92s the same interface used to create ALL the sims here!)
\f0\b0 \
\
REAL: complex system -> drought\
Solving problems, and what all systems have in common.\
// break out of top-down linear thinking\
// emergence, from the bottom up.\
New Rule\
Make Prediction.\
\

\f1\b // Turn up the growth
\f0\b0 \
\
Reflect on prediction\
THINK IN LOOPS - linear vs Feedback loops\
How to CHANGE loops? - Changing systems\
\

\f1\b // Change System, destroy trees. // create your own object
\f0\b0 \
\
REAL: Reflect - firebreaks\
On breaking & amplifying loops\
Now, practice thinking in loops.\
Prediction, again.\
\

\f1\b // Multiple plants
\f0\b0 \
\
Reflection, and the loops.\
ALSO! Notice self-organization, adaptive.\
// hey, what if you INCREASE the fire?\'85\
REAL: suppressing fire hurts, but hard to convey. death.\
           old mindset costs lives.\
REAL: more explaining & exploring\
\

\f1\b // A Zoo of Sims - and create your OWN solutions.
\f0\b0 \
\
Why read/write - not just for experts to explain/explore,\
what if citizens could challenge, propose NEW solutions,\
based off the models, or collaborate on creating models\
together?\
\
There aren\'92t many accessible models yet, so whatever you make can be helpful!\
\
Now, for YOU to create.\
\

\f1\b // The Big Sandbox (with guiding Q\'92s inside)
\f0\b0 \
\
Why it was important you MADE SOMETHING\'85\
\
Transmission - even \'93learning by doing\'94\
\
Construction - actually MAKING new ideas.\
\
Learning IS teaching.\
Now, share your model, and share thinking in systems.\
You can teach someone else what you know, have a dialogue in systems, you BOTH learn. And urge readers to CREATE THEIR OWN SOLUTIONS, ADD ONTO THE MODEL, or even challenge you, and create ALTERNATE MODELS\
// (If you\'92re a\'85) - nah, too \'93clever\'94, not actually helpful.\
\
Conclusion:\
understand the world from the bottom up,\
change the world from the bottom up.\
\
}